aloo poha recipe | potato poha recipe
 

SAVE
 
PRINT
PREP TIME
10 mins
COOK TIME
20 mins
TOTAL TIME
30 mins
 
potato poha recipe - easy to make and a popular breakfast dish from maharashtra.
AUTHOR: dassana
RECIPE TYPE: breakfast
CUISINE: maharashtrian
SERVES: 3
INGREDIENTS (measuring cup used, 1 cup = 250 ml)
1 and half cup poha, thick variety (flattened rice/parched rice)
1 large potato/aloo, cubed
1 small to medium onion, finely chopped
1 small green chili, finely chopped
1 sprig curry leaves/kadi patta
¾ (three-fourth) tsp mustard seeds/rai
¾ (three-fourth) tsp cumin seeds/jeera
1.5 to 2 roasted peanuts
½ tsp turmeric powder/haldi
1 tsp sugar or more if you want it the poha to be more sweet.
2 to 3 tbsp grated fresh coconut (optional)
1 tbsp chopped coriander/cilantro leaves
a few pieces of lemon or 1 tsp lemon juice or as required
2 to 2.5 tbsp oil
salt as required
INSTRUCTIONS
pick the poha. rinse the poha in clean running water. use a strainer to rinse the poha.
keep the poha in the strainer and rinse it in running water. make sure that you do not rinse it too much or else it breaks and gets mushy.
while rinsing, the poha absorbs enough water and it becomes soft.
the poha must become soft but remain intact, whole and separate. If the poha does not become soft, sprinkle few drops of water on the poha in the strainer.
sprinkle the turmeric powder, sugar and salt in the poha. gently mix.
roast the peanuts in a small pan till they become crunchy and keep aside.
also peel the potatoes and chop them into small cubes.
in a kadai, heat oil. before sauting the aloo/potatoes, just sprinkle some salt and mix it well with the potatoes. immediately put the potatoes in the hot oil.
by using this technique, the potatoes have salt in them and yet do not loose water and become moist before sauting.
saute the potatoes till light golden and crisp. Keep aside.
in the same kadai, we can cook now. add the mustard seeds to the hot oil.
when they splutter, add the cumin seeds. when the cumin seeds sizzle, add the onions.
saute the onions till they become translucent and soften.
now add the curry leaves, green chili and roasted peanuts. saute for a minute.
add the fried potatoes and then the poha. mix gently with the rest of the mixture.
saute the entire poha mixture for 2-3 minutes on a low flame, stirring gently in between.
switch off the flame and cover the pan tightly with a lid for the poha to get steamed for a few minutes.
remove the lid and garnish the poha with chopped coriander/cilantro leaves and grated fresh coconut.
serve aloo poha hot with chopped lemon pieces. the lemon juice has to be squeezed on to the poha before eating it.
alternatively, you could also do this method. once the poha is done, sprinkle approx 1 tsp lime juice on the aloo poha. mix it with the poha and then garnish it with coconut and cilantro leaves.
NOTES
Adding sugar is optional. You can skip it completely if you don't prefer as slightly sweet taste in the batata poha.