PREP TIME
9 hours
COOK TIME
30 mins
TOTAL TIME
9 hours 30 mins
 
chole bhature - spicy chickpeas curry served with leavened fried bread. popular in punjab and parts of north india.
AUTHOR: dassana
RECIPE TYPE: breakfast, brunch
CUISINE: punjabi, north indian
SERVES: 2-3
INGREDIENTS (measuring cup used, 1 cup = 250 ml)
main ingredients
1 cup dried small chickpeas or regular chickpeas/chole/safed chana (canned chickpeas can also be used) or 1.5 cups regular dried chickpeas.
1 green chilli, slit (hari mirch)
1 tsp coriander powder (dhania powder)
¼ tsp red chilli powder (lal mirch powder)
½ tsp turmeric powder (haldi)
1 tsp garam masala powder or chole masala
½ or 1 tsp dry mango powder (amchur powder)
a pinch of asafoetida/hing (optional)
black salt or rock salt as required
2 cups water to be added later
whole garam masala/spices
1 tsp cumin seeds
1 large indian bay leaf (tej patta)
2 inch cinnamon (dal chini)
2-3 cloves (laung)
2 green cardamom (choti elachini)
2-3 black peppercorn
ground paste ingredients:
1 medium size onion, chopped
2 medium size tomatoes, chopped
½ inch ginger/adrak, chopped
3-4 garlic cloves, chopped
1 green chili, chopped
for bhatura recipe you can read the following step by step recipes:
bhatura
quick - aloo/potato bhatura
easy bhatura recipe
INSTRUCTIONS
first soak the chickpeas/chole in enough water overnight or for 7-8 hours.
drain the water and cook the chole with water+salt in a pressure cooker or a pot.
you can also add a pinch or two of baking soda while cooking the chole.
strain the chole and keep aside.
make a fine paste of the onions, tomatoes, ginger, garlic and green chili in a grinder or blender
no need to add water while making the paste as the juice of the tomatoes will help in making the paste.
keep the paste aside.
heat oil in a pan or kadai/wok.
fry the whole garam masala/spices mentioned above till the oil become fragrant.
don't burn them.
add the ground paste and saute till the oil starts to leaves the sides of the paste.
stir while sauting so that the paste does not stick to the pan.
add all the dry spice powders - turmeric, red chili powder, coriander and dry mango powder.
stir and saute for a minute.
add the cooked chole and stir.
pour water.
add salt and stir.
simmer on a low or medium flame for 12-15 minutes till the curry thickens.
don't cover the pan.
stir occasionally.
add slit green chilies and garam masala powder or chole masala.
stir and simmer for a minute or two.
check the seasoning and add more salt or spice powders if required.
garnish chole with coriander leaves.
serve chole with onion slices, lemon wedges along with bhatura.
you can also garnish the chole with some slit green chilies and julienned gingers.
enjoy the chole bhature.