Preparation Time: 20 minutes
Cooking Time: 20 minutes
Serves: 2 servings

Print Recipe
Ingredients:
1 cup Rava (semolina/sooji)
1/4 cup slightly sour Curd (yogurt)
1/4 cup finely chopped Capsicum
1 large Onion, finely chopped
1 large Tomato, finely chopped
2 Green Chillies, finely chopped
1 teaspoon grated Ginger
1/4 cup finely chopped Coriander Leaves
Oil, for shallow frying
Salt to taste

DIRECTIONS
1.Take rava, sour curd and salt in a large bowl.
2.Mix well using spoon by gradually adding water (approx. 1-cup) until batter has thick yet watery consistency (like pancake batter or slightly thicker than dosa batter). Keep it aside for 20-minutes.
3.Add onion, capsicum, tomato, green chillies, ginger and coriander leaves in the batter.
4.Mix well and again check for consistency. (Rava/semolina absorbs water as time goes by and batter becomes thick after some time due to that.) If required, add extra water and mix well to make sure that it has thick consistency.
5.Heat non-stick tawa or griddle over medium flame. Add few drops of OILon the surface of tawa and spread it using halved onion or halved potato. This process helps in easy spreading of the batter and also in easy removal of any remaining residues on tawa/griddle after each batch. (Follow this process before making each rava uttapam – see tips and variations section below for alternate process.)
6.When tawa is medium hot, reduce flame to low and pour a ladle full batter (approx. 1/2 cup) and spread it into the circle with the help of ladle. It should have around 1/4-inch thickness and approx. 5-6 inches of diameter.
7.Drizzle 1-teaspoon oil around the edge.
8.Cook until color of top surface changes from white to off-white and bottom side turns light brown for approx. 2-3 minutes.
9.Flip it gently and cook another side over medium flame until bottom surface turns light brown in color, it will take around 1-2 minutes.
10.Flip it again and cook for 30-seconds. Transfer it to a plate. Prepare suji uttapams from remaining batter by following steps from step-5 to step-10. Serve hot with tomato ketchup or tomato chutney.
