PREP TIME
2 hours 20 mins
COOK TIME
20 mins
TOTAL TIME
2 hours 40 mins
 
veg pizza - vegetarian pizza recipe from scratch.
AUTHOR: dassana
CUISINE: italian
SERVES: 3 medium sized pizzas or 2 large pizzas
INGREDIENTS (measuring cup used, 1 cup = 250 ml)
for the pizza bread base:
2.5 to 3 cups all purpose flour/maida
1 cup warm water
2 teaspoon dry yeast
¼ tsp sugar or ¼ tsp honey
2 tbsp olive OIL
½ tsp salt
olive oil for brushing
flour, cornmeal or semolina for sprinkling
for the tomato sauce:
4-5 tomatoes
2-3 garlic
2 tbsp olive oil
2 tbsp red wine (optional)
2 tsp dried basil or 2 tbsp fresh basil
1 tsp dried oregano or 1 tbsp dried oregano
freshly crushed or ground black pepper
salt
toppings for 2 medium sized pizzas:
1 onion, sliced
1 capsicum/bell pepper, sliced
1 tomato (optional)
8-9 pitted green olives, sliced
8-9 pitted black olives, sliced
grated mozarella cheese as required
fresh or dried herbs
INSTRUCTIONS
making the pizza bread:
sprinkle sugar in warm water.
add yeast. stir and let the mixture sit at room temperature for 10-15 mins till it becomes frothy,
in a bowl add one cup flour, salt, olive oil and the frothy yeast mixture.
stir. add another cup of flour.
stir again. the mixture become sticky.
add the last cup of flour and continue to stir.
knead the dough into a smooth, springy ball.
apply some olive OIL all over the dough.
cover loosely and keep in a large bowl at room temperature for 1.5 to 2 hours.
the dough will double up and nicely leaven.
making the tomato basil pizza sauce:
blanch the tomatoes and the chop them.
heat oil. fry the chopped garlic,
add the tomatoes and wine.
let them cook uncovered for 4-5 minutes.
add the herbs, salt and pepper.
mix well. cook further for 3-4 minutes.
assembling the veg pizza
flatten the dough to a disk.
on a floured surface roll the dough.
place the dough onto a greased and dusted pan.
brush some olive oil on the pizza base.
spread the tomato sauce on the pizza.
top with the veggies.
spread the grated cheese.
bake the veg pizza in a preheated oven for 15-20 minutes at 200 degrees C.
serve veg pizza hot.
NOTES
few tips for veg pizza recipe:
1. the pizza dough can also be made in a food processor or electric mixer.
2. if the dough becomes sticky add some flour and vice versa. if the dough is not soft and a bit dry, then add some warm water.
3. i even made a thin crust pizza with this dough and it was excellent.
4. you can saute the veggies lightly in olive oil if you want.
5. the leftover pizza sauce can be refrigerated.